{{DISPLAYTITLE:Soul Blazer:Glitches}}
This page documents '''glitches, bugs, and exploits''' in '''[[Soul Blazer]]''' (SNES).

==Overview==
Soul Blazer contains several programming bugs and exploitable behaviors. Most are minor, but some can significantly affect gameplay or speedruns.

==Beneficial Glitches==

===Damage Boost Skip===
'''Discovered by:''' Speedrun community

By taking damage at specific locations, the knockback can push the player past obstacles or trigger warps early.

====How to Perform====
# Find a damage source near a barrier or wall
# Position so knockback direction is toward the obstacle
# Take damage at the right frame
# Invincibility frames allow passing through some collision

====Locations====
{| class="wikitable"
! Area !! Skip !! Time Saved
|-
| Underground Castle || Skip door to boss || ~30 seconds
|-
| GreenWood Shrine || Early shrine access || ~45 seconds
|-
| Seabed || Skip water section || ~1 minute
|-
| Mountain of Souls || Skip ladder climb || ~20 seconds
|}

====Technical Details====
* Knockback: 8 pixels per frame for 6 frames
* Total knockback distance: 48 pixels
* Collision check disabled during invincibility

===GEM Overflow===
'''Type:''' Integer overflow exploit

When GEM count exceeds 65,535, the value wraps to 0 and continues counting. Can be exploited for infinite gems.

====How to Perform====
# Collect 65,535 GEMs (maximum normal count)
# Collect one more GEM
# Counter resets to 0
# Sell expensive items, buy cheap items
# Repeat

====Technical Details====
<pre>
GEM counter at $7E1B20 (16-bit)
Maximum value: $FFFF (65,535)
Overflow behavior: Wraps to $0000
</pre>

====Affected Versions====
* All versions (US, EU, JP)
* Not fixed in any revision

===Soul Duplication===
'''Type:''' Logic error

Under specific conditions, the same soul lair can be triggered multiple times, granting duplicate souls and items.

====How to Perform====
# Clear a soul lair
# Immediately leave the screen before animation completes
# Re-enter the screen
# Lair may reset partially

====Success Conditions====
* Works only on specific lairs with slow animations
* Timing-dependent (frame-perfect on some)
* More reliable on certain emulators

====Confirmed Working Lairs====
* Grass Valley: Tulip (Act 1)
* GreenWood: Bird (Act 2)
* Mountain: Snail (Act 4)

===Walk Through Walls===
'''Type:''' Collision detection bug

Certain wall configurations allow the player to pass through solid tiles.

====How to Perform====
# Find corner with specific tile arrangement
# Approach at diagonal angle
# Press into corner while holding attack
# Player may slip through

====Known Locations====
{| class="wikitable"
! Area !! Coordinates !! Description
|-
| Underground Castle || (12, 8) || Shortcut to treasure room
|-
| Model Town 2 || (5, 22) || Skip puzzle section
|-
| World of Evil || (30, 15) || Early boss access
|}

====Technical Details====
<pre>
Collision detection uses 4 corner points
Diagonal movement checks corners sequentially
If timing aligns, one corner check may pass
</pre>

===Magic Stacking===
'''Type:''' Effect duration bug

Casting certain magics rapidly can stack their effects, increasing damage or duration.

====Affected Magics====
* Rotator: Multiple orbs can exist simultaneously
* Flame Pillar: Damage ticks can overlap
* Soul Blade: Hit detection stacks briefly

====Execution====
# Cast magic
# Quickly open menu
# Use another magic item
# Effects may combine

==Harmful Glitches==

===Save Corruption===
'''Type:''' Memory corruption

Rare circumstances can corrupt save data, resulting in lost progress.

====Known Causes====
* Power loss during save
* Cartridge contact issues
* Dirty battery contacts

====Symptoms====
* Missing items
* Wrong area on load
* Corrupted player stats
* Checksum mismatch (detected by game)

====Prevention====
* Clean cartridge contacts regularly
* Avoid interrupting saves
* Make backup save states (emulator)

====Technical Details====
<pre>
Save checksum at $70:0004 (per slot)
If checksum fails, slot marked invalid
Checksum = Sum of bytes $0006-$07FF
</pre>

===Softlock - Leo's Painting===
'''Type:''' Progression blocker

If player enters Leo's painting without completing certain prior events, they may become stuck.

====Trigger Conditions====
* Enter painting before talking to Dr. Leo
* Enter painting without Spirit Sword
* Sequence break through wall glitch

====Escape Methods====
* Use warp magic (if available)
* Reset and reload save
* Some emulators: save state reload

===Softlock - Ghost Ship===
'''Type:''' Progression blocker

Ghost Ship has specific requirements that can leave player stranded.

====Requirements====
* Spirit Sword must be equipped
* Cannot switch weapons in certain areas
* Must clear all lairs in order

====Prevention====
* Always have Spirit Sword before entering
* Clear lower deck before upper deck

===Audio Glitch===
'''Type:''' Sound driver bug

Occasionally, audio may loop incorrectly or become distorted.

====Symptoms====
* Music stuck on single note
* Sound effects playing continuously
* Volume fluctuations

====Fix====
* Enter/exit area (forces music reload)
* Open and close menu
* Reset game (if persistent)

==See Also==
* [[/Secrets|Secrets]]
* [[/Technical Reference|Technical Reference]]

[[Category:Soul Blazer]]
[[Category:Glitches]]
