{{DISPLAYTITLE:Soul Blazer:Progression}}
This is the '''progression guide''' for '''[[Soul Blazer]]''' (SNES), documenting the game's structure, bosses, and completion requirements.

==Overview==
Soul Blazer is divided into 6 Acts, each featuring:
* Multiple dungeon areas with Soul Lairs
* NPCs/creatures to release
* A boss encounter
* Key items and story progression

Total Soul Lairs: ~120
Total Bosses: 8

==Act 1: Grass Valley==

===Areas===
{| class="wikitable"
! Area !! Description !! Enemies
|-
| Grass Valley Village || Starting hub area || None
|-
| Underground Castle B1 || First dungeon level || Blue Slime, Skull Head
|-
| Underground Castle B2 || Second dungeon level || Green Slime, Ghost
|-
| Underground Castle B3 || Third dungeon level || Red Slime, Metal Scorpion
|-
| Underground Castle B4 || Boss area || Dark Soldier, Metal Armor
|}

===Progression===
# Enter Grass Valley Shrine (starting location)
# Clear Underground Castle B1 to release Old Woman
# Clear B2 to release Tool Shop Owner
# Purchase Dream Rod from Tool Shop
# Use Dream Rod to speak with Dr. Leo
# Clear B3 to release Bridge Guard
# Cross bridge to B4
# Defeat '''Metal Mantis''' boss
# Release remaining villagers
# Receive '''Sword of Life'''
# Proceed to GreenWood

===Boss: Metal Mantis===
{| class="wikitable"
! Stat !! Value
|-
| HP || 32
|-
| Attack || 8
|-
| Defense || 4
|-
| Pattern || Lunges forward, shoots projectiles
|-
| Weakness || Strike from behind
|-
| Reward || Access to GreenWood
|}

===Key Items===
* '''Dream Rod''' - Allows communication with sleeping Dr. Leo
* '''Sword of Life''' - Basic attack upgrade

==Act 2: GreenWood==

===Areas===
{| class="wikitable"
! Area !! Description !! Enemies
|-
| GreenWood || Forest hub area || None (after release)
|-
| Water Shrine || Water dungeon || Stinger, Mud Slime
|-
| Fire Shrine || Fire dungeon || Fire Bug, Fire Spirit
|-
| Light Shrine || Light dungeon || Poison Butterfly, Dark Elf
|-
| Lost Marsh || Boss area || Maneater, Guardian
|}

===Progression===
# Enter GreenWood through western path
# Clear Fire Shrine - Release deer
# Clear Water Shrine - Release bird
# Clear Light Shrine - Release mole
# Release Turbo (squirrel)
# Enter Lost Marsh with Turbo's help
# Navigate marsh puzzles
# Defeat '''Plantentacle''' boss
# Release Great Tree
# Receive '''Greenwood Leaf'''
# Proceed to St. Elles

===Boss: Plantentacle===
{| class="wikitable"
! Stat !! Value
|-
| HP || 48
|-
| Attack || 12
|-
| Defense || 6
|-
| Pattern || Extends vines, summons plant minions
|-
| Weakness || Strike the main bulb
|-
| Reward || Access to St. Elles
|}

===Key Items===
* '''Greenwood Leaf''' - Allows breathing underwater
* '''Magic Bell''' - Summons released creatures

==Act 3: St. Elles==

===Areas===
{| class="wikitable"
! Area !! Description !! Enemies
|-
| St. Elles Seabed || Underwater hub || Urchin, Jellyfish
|-
| Durean || Underwater ruins || Merman, Fish Monster
|-
| Ghost Ship || Haunted vessel || Zombie, Ghost Pirate
|-
| Southerta || Underwater city || Phantom, Bat
|-
| Mermaid Queen Palace || Royal chamber || None
|}

===Progression===
# Dive into seabed using Greenwood Leaf
# Clear Durean - Release dolphins
# Learn about Ghost Ship from mermaids
# Board Ghost Ship
# Navigate the haunted ship
# Defeat '''Ghost Ship Captain''' boss
# Continue to Southerta
# Visit Mermaid Queen
# Defeat '''Poseidon''' boss
# Receive '''Bubble Armor'''
# Proceed to Mountain of Souls

===Boss: Ghost Ship Captain===
{| class="wikitable"
! Stat !! Value
|-
| HP || 40
|-
| Attack || 14
|-
| Defense || 7
|-
| Pattern || Throws anchor, summons ghost crew
|-
| Weakness || Soul Blade magic
|-
| Reward || Access to Southerta
|}

===Boss: Poseidon===
{| class="wikitable"
! Stat !! Value
|-
| HP || 64
|-
| Attack || 18
|-
| Defense || 10
|-
| Pattern || Trident strikes, water spouts
|-
| Weakness || Strike during recovery
|-
| Reward || Bubble Armor
|}

===Key Items===
* '''Bubble Armor''' - Increased underwater defense
* '''Mermaid Tears''' - Healing item

==Act 4: Mountain of Souls==

===Areas===
{| class="wikitable"
! Area !! Description !! Enemies
|-
| Mountain Base || Entry area || Imp, Demon Eye
|-
| Laynole || Mushroom village || Fire Elemental, Stone Face
|-
| Nome || Mountain village || Ice Elemental, Demon Knight
|-
| Lune || Summit area || Various
|}

===Progression===
# Enter mountain via Nome village
# Clear ice caves
# Defeat Stone Guardian boss
# Proceed to Leo's Laboratory

==Act 5: Dr. Leo's Laboratory==

===Areas===
{| class="wikitable"
! Area !! Description !! Enemies
|-
| Leo's Laboratory || Inventor's home || None
|-
| Model Town || Miniature world || Toy enemies
|-
| Power Plant || Electric area || Robot enemies
|}

===Progression===
# Meet Dr. Leo
# Explore Model Town
# Defeat Tin Doll boss
# Proceed to World of Evil

==Act 6: World of Evil==

The final act with the most challenging enemies and Deathtoll himself.

===Progression===
# Navigate Demon Realm
# Clear all soul lairs
# Climb Final Tower
# Defeat Deathtoll (3 phases)
# Complete the game

==See Also==
* [[/Bosses|Bosses]]
* [[/Maps|Maps]]
* [[/Items|Items]]

[[Category:Soul Blazer]]
[[Category:Progression]]
