{{GameInfoBox
|title=Secret of Mana
|image=Secret_of_Mana_Title.png
|developer=Square
|publisher=Square (JP), Squaresoft (US), Nintendo (EU)
|platform=Super Nintendo
|release=1993
|genre=Action RPG
|players=1-3
}}

'''Secret of Mana''' (known in Japan as '''聖剣伝説2''' ''Seiken Densetsu 2'') is an action role-playing game developed and published by Square for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System.

==ROM Information==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
! Property !! Value
|-
| ROM File || Secret of Mana (U) [!].sfc
|-
| Size || 2,097,152 bytes (2 MB)
|-
| Mapping || HiROM
|-
| SRAM || 8 KiB
|-
| ROM Speed || 200ns (SlowROM)
|-
| Checksum || 0x51fc
|-
| SHA256 || <code>4c15013131351e694e05f22e38bb1b3e4031dedac77ec75abecebe8520d82d5f</code>
|}

==Technical Overview==
Secret of Mana uses a HiROM memory mapping with 64 banks of ROM data. The game features:
* Real-time action combat system
* Ring menu interface
* 3-player cooperative multiplayer
* 8 Mana spirits with elemental magic
* 8 weapon types with charge attacks

==Data Locations==
===ROM Map===
See [[Secret of Mana/ROM Map]] for complete ROM address documentation.

Key locations:
{| class="wikitable"
|-
! Address !! Description
|-
| $101dfa || Enemy stats table (documented)
|-
| $104213 || Character level 1 stats
|-
| $105116 || Enemy AI/movement data
|-
| $083000 || Exit/warp data
|-
| $033d39 || SPC music pointers
|}

===RAM Map===
See [[Secret of Mana/RAM Map]] for complete RAM address documentation.

Key locations:
{| class="wikitable"
|-
! Address !! Description
|-
| $7ee000 || Character 1 (Hero) data
|-
| $7ee200 || Character 2 (Girl) data
|-
| $7ee400 || Character 3 (Sprite) data
|-
| $7ee600 || Enemy 1 data
|-
| $7ec800 || NPC/Entity table
|}

==Characters==
The game features three playable characters:

===The Hero (Randi)===
A young boy who accidentally releases the power of Mana and must restore it.

===The Girl (Primm)===
A young woman searching for her lost love Dyluck.

===The Sprite (Popoi)===
A mischievous sprite child who has lost their memory.

==Mana Spirits==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
! Spirit !! Element !! Description
|-
| Undine || Water/Ice || Spirit of water
|-
| Gnome || Earth || Spirit of earth
|-
| Sylphid || Wind || Spirit of wind
|-
| Salamando || Fire || Spirit of fire
|-
| Shade || Dark || Spirit of darkness
|-
| Lumina || Light || Spirit of light
|-
| Luna || Moon || Spirit of the moon
|-
| Dryad || Wood || Spirit of trees
|}

==Weapons==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
! Type !! Description
|-
| Sword || Balanced weapon, good reach
|-
| Spear || Long reach, slower attacks
|-
| Bow || Ranged attacks
|-
| Axe || Powerful, slow attacks
|-
| Boomerang || Ranged, returns to thrower
|-
| Glove || Fast, short range
|-
| Whip || Can reach across gaps
|-
| Javelin || Thrown weapon
|}

==Music==
The soundtrack was composed by Hiroki Kikuta and features over 60 tracks. Music is stored in SPC format.

===Music Data Locations===
* SPC pointers: $033d39
* Sample indexes: $033f22
* BRR sample data: ~$c347c3
* SPC sequence data: ~$c4d33d

==See Also==
* [[Secret of Mana/ROM Map]]
* [[Secret of Mana/RAM Map]]
* [[Secret of Mana/Data Structures]]
* [[Secret of Mana/Enemies]]
* [[Secret of Mana/Items]]

==External Links==
* [https://datacrystal.tcrf.net/wiki/Secret_of_Mana_(SNES) Data Crystal]
* [https://tcrf.net/Secret_of_Mana_(SNES) The Cutting Room Floor]
* [https://www.romhacking.net/games/799/ ROMhacking.net]

[[Category:SNES Games]]
[[Category:Action RPG]]
[[Category:Square Games]]
[[Category:1993 Games]]
