{{Back|Soul_Blazer}}

= Locations =

'''Soul Blazer''' takes place across multiple regions, each with towns that must be restored by freeing souls.

__TOC__

== World Structure ==

The world is divided into distinct areas, each with:
* Monster-filled dungeons with lairs
* A town/area to restore
* A boss to defeat

{| class="wikitable"
! Area !! Town/Location !! Theme
|-
| 1 || Grass Valley || Grassland/village
|-
| 2 || GreenWood || Forest/nature
|-
| 3 || St. Elles || Ocean/underwater
|-
| 4 || Mountain of Souls || Mountain/caves
|-
| 5 || Leo's Paintings || Paintings/art
|-
| 6 || World of Evil || Final area
|}

== Grass Valley ==

The first area introduces core mechanics.

=== Hub ===

* Starting village
* Tutorial area
* NPCs teach game basics

=== Dungeon ===

{| class="wikitable"
! Section !! Features
|-
| Underground Castle || First dungeon
|-
| Lairs || Release village residents
|}

=== Boss ===

Metal Mantis - First boss encounter

== GreenWood ==

A forest realm inhabited by plants and animals.

=== Hub ===

* Forest village
* Talking plants and animals
* Nature theme

=== Dungeon ===

{| class="wikitable"
! Section !! Features
|-
| Lost Side || Forest maze
|-
| Water Shrine || Waterfall area
|-
| Fire Shrine || Hot area
|-
| Light Shrine || Illumination puzzle
|}

=== Boss ===

Plant boss at shrine's heart

== St. Elles ==

An underwater kingdom.

=== Hub ===

* Mermaid town
* Underwater setting
* Can breathe underwater

=== Dungeon ===

{| class="wikitable"
! Section !! Features
|-
| Seabed || Ocean floor
|-
| Ship Graveyard || Sunken vessels
|-
| Undersea Castle || Mermaid palace dungeon
|}

=== Boss ===

Aquatic boss encounter

== Mountain of Souls ==

A mining community turned ghost town.

=== Hub ===

* Mining village
* Mountain setting
* Multiple levels

=== Dungeon ===

{| class="wikitable"
! Section !! Features
|-
| Mines || Underground tunnels
|-
| Lune || Moon-themed area
|-
| Model Town || Diorama world
|}

=== Boss ===

Mountain guardian

== Leo's Paintings ==

A world inside paintings created by the painter Leo.

=== Hub ===

* Art gallery
* Multiple paintings to enter
* Surreal environments

=== Dungeon ===

{| class="wikitable"
! Section !! Features
|-
| Leo's Lab || Painter's workshop
|-
| Painting Worlds || Inside artworks
|-
| Model Towns || Miniature settings
|}

=== Boss ===

Boss within paintings

== World of Evil ==

The final confrontation with Deathtoll.

=== Structure ===

{| class="wikitable"
! Section !! Description
|-
| Deathtoll's Lair || Final dungeon
|-
| Boss Rush || Previous bosses return
|-
| Final Battle || Deathtoll
|}

== Hub Features ==

Each restored town provides:

{| class="wikitable"
! Feature !! Description
|-
| Save Points || Record progress
|-
| Shops || Buy items/equipment
|-
| NPCs || Hints and story
|-
| Rest Areas || Full HP/GEM recovery
|}

== Progression ==

Areas must be completed in order:
# Grass Valley
# GreenWood
# St. Elles
# Mountain of Souls
# Leo's Paintings
# World of Evil

Each area unlocks after defeating the previous boss.

== Related Pages ==

* [[Soul_Blazer:Progression|Progression]]
* [[Soul_Blazer:Items|Items]]
* [[Soul_Blazer:Bosses|Bosses]]

[[Category:Soul Blazer]]
[[Category:Locations]]
