{{Back|Soul_Blazer}}

= Story Guide =

'''Soul Blazer''' follows a guardian angel restoring life to a world destroyed by Deathtoll.

__TOC__

== Premise ==

The Master (God) sends a guardian angel to the world to free souls captured by Deathtoll. King Magridd made a deal with Deathtoll, trading all living souls for one piece of gold each, leaving the world empty.

== The Master's Mission ==

Your task:
# Descend to the ruined world
# Find and seal monster lairs
# Free the souls trapped within
# Restore life to each region
# Ultimately defeat Deathtoll

== Chapter 1: Grass Valley ==

=== Setting ===

A peaceful village region, now empty.

=== Goals ===

# Clear the Underground Castle
# Seal all monster lairs
# Free the village residents
# Defeat the boss: Metal Mantis

=== Key NPCs Restored ===

* Village Elder
* Tool shop keeper
* Various villagers
* Animals

=== Boss: Metal Mantis ===

First boss encounter. Introduces combat fundamentals.

== Chapter 2: GreenWood ==

=== Setting ===

A forest realm inhabited by plants and animals.

=== Goals ===

# Navigate the Lost Side
# Clear Water, Fire, and Light Shrines
# Free the forest creatures
# Defeat the area boss

=== Key NPCs Restored ===

* Talking plants
* Forest animals
* Turbo the dog (companion)

=== Unique Features ===

* Plants and animals as NPCs
* Nature-themed puzzles
* Turbo companion helps in dungeons

== Chapter 3: St. Elles ==

=== Setting ===

An underwater mermaid kingdom.

=== Goals ===

# Explore the Seabed
# Navigate the Ship Graveyard
# Clear the Undersea Castle
# Free the mermaids
# Defeat the aquatic boss

=== Key NPCs Restored ===

* Mermaids
* Sea creatures
* Lue the mermaid (important character)

=== Unique Features ===

* Underwater exploration
* Swimming mechanics
* Dolphin transportation

=== Story Element ===

Lue the mermaid develops feelings for the hero, creating emotional conflict.

== Chapter 4: Mountain of Souls ==

=== Setting ===

A mining village and mountain region.

=== Goals ===

# Explore the Mountain
# Navigate the Mines
# Visit Lune (the moon)
# Clear the Model Towns
# Defeat the mountain boss

=== Key NPCs Restored ===

* Mining villagers
* Mountain dwellers
* Grandpa (key NPC)

=== Unique Features ===

* Shrinking into Model Towns
* Multiple scale dungeons
* Time-related puzzles

== Chapter 5: Leo's Paintings ==

=== Setting ===

The realm of Dr. Leo, an artist whose paintings have become real worlds.

=== Goals ===

# Enter Leo's Lab
# Navigate through paintings
# Free souls from artistic worlds
# Discover Dr. Leo's fate
# Defeat the painting boss

=== Key NPCs Restored ===

* Dr. Leo
* Queen Magridd (imprisoned)
* Art gallery visitors

=== Unique Features ===

* Entering paintings
* Surreal art-world dungeons
* Key plot revelations

=== Story Element ===

Dr. Leo created the paintings to escape Deathtoll's influence. Queen Magridd was imprisoned for opposing the king's deal.

== Chapter 6: World of Evil ==

=== Setting ===

Deathtoll's realm - the final confrontation.

=== Goals ===

# Enter Deathtoll's castle
# Face previous bosses again
# Reach Deathtoll
# Defeat the Lord of Evil

=== Final Dungeon ===

* Boss rush (rematch with all bosses)
* Strongest enemies
* No returning once entered

=== Final Boss: Deathtoll ===

Multiple forms:
# Initial form
# True form

Victory restores all souls permanently.

== Endings ==

=== Standard Ending ===

After defeating Deathtoll:
* All souls freed
* World fully restored
* Hero returns to the Master
* Emotional farewell with NPCs

=== Themes ===

The game explores:
* Sacrifice and redemption
* The value of all life
* Greed and its consequences
* Spiritual responsibility

== Key Items ==

{| class="wikitable"
! Item !! Purpose
|-
| Soul Blades || Various swords for combat
|-
| Armor || Protection upgrades
|-
| Magic || Special abilities
|-
| Gems || Currency for magic
|-
| Emblems || Special equipment effects
|}

== Soul System ==

The unique mechanic:

{| class="wikitable"
! Step !! Action
|-
| 1 || Find monster lair
|-
| 2 || Defeat all monsters from lair
|-
| 3 || Lair seals automatically
|-
| 4 || Soul orb appears
|-
| 5 || Touch orb to free soul
|-
| 6 || NPC/object appears in town
|}

== Tips ==

* Clear all lairs in an area before moving on
* Talk to restored NPCs for hints
* Some souls give items or open paths
* Explore towns after each dungeon section

== Related Pages ==

* [[Soul_Blazer:Battle_System|Battle System]]
* [[Soul_Blazer:Locations|Locations]]
* [[Soul_Blazer:Items|Items]]

[[Category:Soul Blazer]]
[[Category:Story Guide]]
