{{Back|Dragon Quest III}}

'''Secrets''' in Dragon Quest III (SNES) include hidden features, rare items, and optional content.

== Secret Class ==

=== Thief Class ===
The SNES version adds the Thief class not available in the original NES version.

'''Features:'''
* High agility
* Steal ability
* Treasure detection
* Good speed growth

== Secret Locations ==

=== Pachisi (Suguroku) Boards ===
Hidden minigame boards found throughout the world.

'''Locations:'''
* Romaly region
* Portoga region  
* Persistence region
* Post-game areas

'''Rewards:'''
* Rare equipment
* Bonus experience
* Unique items

=== Bonus Dungeon ===
A post-game dungeon exclusive to the remakes.

'''Access:'''
* Complete the main game
* New dungeon area opens
* Contains powerful equipment

== Rare Monsters ==

=== Metal Slime Family ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
! Monster !! Location !! EXP
|-
| Metal Slime || Various mid-game areas || High
|-
| Metal Babble || Later dungeons || Very High
|-
| King Metal || Rare spawn || Extremely High
|}

'''Hunting Tips:'''
* These monsters flee quickly
* Use attacks that can land before they run
* High agility helps strike first

== Secret Items ==

=== Orochi Sword ===
A powerful sword found in the Orochi's Cave.

=== Sword of Kings ===
The ultimate sword for the Hero class.

=== Sacred Bikini ===
Rare female-only armor with high defense.

'''Location:'''
* Found in Pachisi minigame rewards
* Trade with certain NPCs
* Hidden in post-game dungeons

== Medal System ==

Collect Small Medals scattered throughout the world.

'''Medal Locations:'''
* Hidden in pots and dressers
* Buried in the ground
* Rewarded from certain events

'''Medal Rewards:'''
Exchange medals with the Medal King for:
* Rare equipment
* Unique items
* Exclusive accessories

== Personality System ==

=== Starting Personality ===
The opening quiz determines the Hero's starting personality, affecting stat growth.

=== Personality Books ===
Books found throughout the game can change personalities:
* Permanently alters stat growth patterns
* Multiple books in the world
* Strategy involves optimizing growth

== Zen Master ==

=== Class Changing ===
* All classes (except Hero) can class change at level 20+
* Stats are halved but skills retained
* Master multiple classes for ultimate builds

=== Optimal Builds ===
* Thief → Warrior for speed and strength
* Mage → Warrior for hybrid fighting
* Multiple class changes compound skills

== Post-Game Content ==

=== The Dark World (Alefgard) ===
After defeating Baramos, a new world opens:
* Classic Dragon Quest 1 locations
* New dungeons and challenges
* True final boss

=== Zoma ===
The true final boss awaits in the Dark World:
* Stronger than Baramos
* Requires Sphere of Light
* Multiple phases

== Easter Eggs ==

=== Dragon Quest 1 References ===
The SNES version includes numerous references to the original game:
* Familiar locations
* Classic NPCs
* Musical callbacks

=== Day/Night Secrets ===
Some NPCs and events only appear at specific times:
* Night-only shops
* Day-specific events
* Time-based monster spawns

== Tips ==

'''Experience Farming:'''
* Metal Slime hunting is most efficient
* Certain areas have better spawn rates
* Use skills that hit multiple times

'''Gold Farming:'''
* Sell excess items
* Complete Pachisi boards for valuable items
* Fight in high-level areas for expensive drops

[[Category:Dragon Quest III]]
[[Category:Secrets]]
