{{Back|Dragon Warrior III}}
__TOC__

= Characters =

This page documents the playable characters and class system in Dragon Warrior III for the NES.

== Overview ==

Dragon Warrior III introduced the innovative class system that would become a staple of the series. The Hero is a fixed class, but players create party members by selecting from multiple classes.

== Character Data Structure ==

Each character uses 48 bytes in SRAM:

{| class="wikitable"
! Offset !! Size !! Description
|-
| $00 || 8 || Name (8 characters)
|-
| $08 || 2 || Current HP
|-
| $0A || 2 || Max HP
|-
| $0C || 1 || Current MP
|-
| $0D || 1 || Max MP
|-
| $0E || 1 || Strength
|-
| $0F || 1 || Agility
|-
| $10 || 1 || Vitality
|-
| $11 || 1 || Intelligence
|-
| $12 || 1 || Luck
|-
| $13 || 1 || Attack Power
|-
| $14 || 1 || Defense Power
|-
| $15 || 1 || Level
|-
| $16-$19 || 4 || Experience
|-
| $1A || 1 || Current Class
|-
| $1B || 1 || Gender
|-
| $1C-$1F || 4 || Equipment slots
|-
| $20-$2F || 16 || Spell flags, personality, status
|}

== The Hero ==

The main protagonist is always the Hero class.

=== Base Statistics ===

{| class="wikitable"
! Stat !! Base Value !! Growth Rate
|-
| HP || 15 || High
|-
| MP || 5 || Medium
|-
| Strength || 7 || High
|-
| Agility || 5 || Medium
|-
| Vitality || 6 || Medium
|-
| Intelligence || 4 || Medium
|-
| Luck || 5 || Medium
|}

=== Hero Level Progression ===

{| class="wikitable sortable"
! Level !! HP !! MP !! Str !! Agi !! Vit !! Int !! Exp Required
|-
| 1 || 15 || 5 || 7 || 5 || 6 || 4 || 0
|-
| 10 || 82 || 35 || 42 || 28 || 35 || 25 || 5,000
|-
| 20 || 155 || 75 || 88 || 55 || 70 || 52 || 30,000
|-
| 30 || 220 || 115 || 130 || 82 || 105 || 78 || 100,000
|-
| 40 || 270 || 155 || 168 || 108 || 138 || 102 || 250,000
|-
| 50 || 310 || 190 || 200 || 132 || 165 || 125 || 500,000
|-
| 99 || 400 || 255 || 255 || 180 || 220 || 175 || 9,999,999
|}

=== Hero Spells ===

{| class="wikitable"
! Level !! Spell !! MP Cost !! Effect
|-
| 1 || Heal || 3 || Restore 30-40 HP
|-
| 4 || Firebal || 4 || Fire damage (group)
|-
| 7 || Sleep || 3 || Sleep one enemy
|-
| 11 || Radiant || 2 || Light in dungeons
|-
| 13 || Return || 8 || Return to town
|-
| 16 || Outside || 8 || Exit dungeon
|-
| 19 || Healmore || 8 || Restore 85-100 HP
|-
| 23 || Firebane || 6 || Fire damage (all)
|-
| 28 || Healall || 18 || Full HP heal
|-
| 33 || Healus || 36 || Full party HP heal
|-
| 38 || Revive || 20 || Revive (50% chance)
|-
| 41 || Chance || 15 || Random effect
|}

== Character Classes ==

=== Warrior ===

Physical combat specialist.

{| class="wikitable"
! Stat !! Growth Rate !! Notes
|-
| HP || Very High || Best HP growth
|-
| MP || None || Cannot use magic
|-
| Strength || Very High || Best physical damage
|-
| Agility || Low || Acts last often
|-
| Vitality || Very High || High defense base
|}

'''Equipment:'''
* Weapons: All swords, axes, clubs
* Armor: All heavy armor, shields
* Helmets: All helmets

'''Role:''' Front-line tank and damage dealer

=== Fighter ===

Martial arts specialist.

{| class="wikitable"
! Stat !! Growth Rate !! Notes
|-
| HP || High || Good survivability
|-
| MP || None || Cannot use magic
|-
| Strength || High || Strong attacks
|-
| Agility || Very High || Often acts first
|-
| Vitality || Medium || Moderate defense
|}

'''Equipment:'''
* Weapons: Claws, staves, limited swords
* Armor: Light armor only
* Helmets: Bandanas, caps

'''Role:''' Fast physical attacker, critical hit specialist

=== Mage ===

Offensive magic specialist.

{| class="wikitable"
! Stat !! Growth Rate !! Notes
|-
| HP || Very Low || Very fragile
|-
| MP || Very High || Largest MP pool
|-
| Strength || Very Low || Poor physical
|-
| Agility || Medium || Average speed
|-
| Intelligence || Very High || Best spell power
|}

'''Equipment:'''
* Weapons: Staves, knives
* Armor: Robes only
* Helmets: Hats, circlets

'''Spells:''' Firebal, Icebolt, Infernos, Defeat, Explodet, etc.

'''Role:''' AoE damage dealer, enemy elimination

=== Cleric ===

Healing and support magic.

{| class="wikitable"
! Stat !! Growth Rate !! Notes
|-
| HP || Medium || Moderate survival
|-
| MP || High || Good MP pool
|-
| Strength || Low || Weak physical
|-
| Agility || Medium || Average speed
|-
| Intelligence || High || Strong healing
|}

'''Equipment:'''
* Weapons: Staves, maces, flails
* Armor: Robes, some mail
* Helmets: Hats, some helmets

'''Spells:''' Heal, Healmore, Healall, Antidote, Revive, etc.

'''Role:''' Primary healer, undead killer

=== Merchant ===

Money-focused class.

{| class="wikitable"
! Stat !! Growth Rate !! Notes
|-
| HP || High || Decent survival
|-
| MP || Low || Limited magic
|-
| Strength || Medium || Average damage
|-
| Agility || Low || Slower class
|-
| Luck || Very High || Better drops
|}

'''Special Abilities:'''
* Extra gold from battles
* Appraise items (tells sell price)
* Dig (chance to find gold)

'''Role:''' Money farming, early-mid game support

=== Goof-off ===

Unpredictable wild card.

{| class="wikitable"
! Stat !! Growth Rate !! Notes
|-
| HP || Low || Poor survival
|-
| MP || Low || Weak magic
|-
| Strength || Low || Weak attacks
|-
| Agility || High || Fast but useless
|-
| Luck || Very High || Very lucky
|}

'''Special Behaviors:'''
* May not follow orders
* Sometimes wastes turns
* Can become Sage without book

'''Role:''' Joke class, Sage prerequisite

=== Sage ===

Master of all magic.

{| class="wikitable"
! Stat !! Growth Rate !! Notes
|-
| HP || Medium || Balanced
|-
| MP || Very High || Massive pool
|-
| Strength || Low || Weak physical
|-
| Agility || Medium || Average
|-
| Intelligence || Very High || Top spell power
|}

'''Requirements:'''
* Use Book of Satori (rare)
* OR class change from Goof-off

'''Spells:''' Learns both Mage AND Cleric spells

'''Role:''' Ultimate support - healing and damage

=== Thief (Unused) ===

Data exists but not accessible in US release:

{| class="wikitable"
! Stat !! Growth Rate
|-
| HP || Medium
|-
| MP || Low
|-
| Agility || Very High
|}

Would have had steal abilities.

== Class Change System ==

=== Requirements ===

* Must be Level 20 or higher
* Visit Dharma Temple (Alltrades Abbey)
* Lose half your stats (rounded down)
* Reset to Level 1
* Keep all learned spells

=== Strategy ===

'''Optimal Paths:'''
1. Mage → Sage (if no Book of Satori)
2. Cleric → Mage (rare magic-user)
3. Warrior → Fighter (balanced physical)
4. Any → Sage (ultimate goal)

'''Tips:'''
* Level to 20 minimum before change
* Some players go to 30+ first
* Keep equipment compatible
* Plan spell lists

== Stat Bonuses ==

=== Seeds ===

{| class="wikitable"
! Item !! Effect !! Max Bonus
|-
| Strength Seed || +1-3 Strength || No limit
|-
| Agility Seed || +1-3 Agility || No limit
|-
| Vitality Seed || +1-3 Vitality || No limit
|-
| Intelligence Seed || +1-3 Intelligence || No limit
|-
| Luck Seed || +1-3 Luck || No limit
|}

=== Equipment Bonuses ===

Some equipment provides permanent stat bonuses when used.

== Recommended Party Compositions ==

=== Balanced Party ===

* Hero (all-around)
* Warrior (tank)
* Cleric (healing)
* Mage (damage)

=== Physical Party ===

* Hero
* Warrior
* Warrior
* Fighter

=== Magic Party ===

* Hero
* Sage
* Sage
* Cleric

=== Speed Run Party ===

* Hero
* Fighter (fast)
* Fighter (fast)
* Sage

[[Category:Dragon Warrior III]]
[[Category:Characters]]
[[Category:NES Games]]
