{{Back|Dragon Warrior III}}

'''Secrets''' in Dragon Warrior III (NES) include hidden features, optimal strategies, and game mechanics.

== Secret Locations ==

=== Hidden Shrine ===
A shrine containing the Sword of Kings.

'''Location:'''
* Accessible via Final Key
* Contains one of the best weapons

=== Navel of the Earth ===
The entrance to the final world.

'''Requirements:'''
* Defeat Baramos first
* Portal opens automatically
* Leads to Alefgard (Dragon Quest 1 world)

=== Rubiss Tower ===
Contains essential item for final boss.

'''Location:'''
* In Alefgard
* Sacred Amulet required
* Gives Sphere of Light

== Class Change System ==

=== Optimal Class Paths ===
Characters can change class at Dhama Temple:

'''Popular Builds:'''
* Soldier → Sage: Physical + Magic
* Wizard → Soldier: High MP fighter
* Pilgrim → Wizard: Versatile magic user

'''Requirements:'''
* Must be level 20+
* Visit Dhama Temple
* Stats halve but spells retained

=== Sage Creation ===
Two ways to create a Sage:
# Use Book of Satori on any class
# Level a Gadabout to 20 and class change

== Orb Locations ==

Six orbs are needed to hatch Ramia:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
! Orb !! Location
|-
| Blue Orb || Navel of the Earth
|-
| Red Orb || Pirates' Den
|-
| Green Orb || Tedanki (night)
|-
| Yellow Orb || New Town
|-
| Purple Orb || Gondo Cave
|-
| Silver Orb || Shrine near Lancel
|}

== Hidden Items ==

=== Sword of Kings ===
One of the best weapons in the game.
* Found in hidden shrine
* Hero exclusive

=== Sage's Stone ===
Heals entire party when used.
* Found in Zoma's Castle
* Infinite uses

=== Staff of Rain ===
Required for Rainbow Drop.
* Shrine north of Aliahan

=== Crest of Rubiss ===
Essential for fighting Zoma.
* From Rubiss Tower in Alefgard

== Metal Slime Hunting ==

=== Metal Slime ===
* Location: Various mid-game areas
* High experience but flees quickly

=== Metal Babble ===
* Location: Alefgard dungeons
* Very high experience
* Even faster to flee

=== Hunting Tips ===
* Use critical-hit weapons
* High agility characters act first
* Accept low success rate

== Personality System (NES Notes) ==

The NES version has a basic personality system:
* Determined at character creation
* Affects stat growth patterns
* Less developed than later versions

== Alefgard Secrets ==

=== Tantegel Castle ===
* Home of descendant of Erdrick
* Starting area from Dragon Quest 1
* Contains useful items

=== Charlock Castle ===
* Former lair of Dragon Lord
* Now contains Zoma's minions
* Path to Zoma's Castle

=== Rimuldar ===
* Town from original game
* Equipment and information

== Tips ==

'''Party Composition:'''
* Hero required (cannot be removed)
* Sage is powerful but hard to create
* Balanced party recommended

'''Grinding:'''
* Levels 35-40 recommended for Zoma
* Metal enemies for fast experience
* Shrine areas for safe grinding

'''Final Boss:'''
* Use Sage's Stone for healing
* Sphere of Light removes Zoma's barrier
* Buff spells essential

== Known Issues ==

=== Save System ===
* Only one save file in NES version
* Password backup recommended
* Loss of progress permanent

=== Translation ===
* Some items/spells renamed from Japanese
* Certain NPC text abbreviated
* Quest objectives sometimes unclear

[[Category:Dragon Warrior III]]
[[Category:Secrets]]
