{{Back|Dragon_Warrior_III}}

= Story Guide =

'''Dragon Warrior III''' follows the child of the hero Ortega on a quest to defeat the Archfiend Baramos.

__TOC__

== Premise ==

Ortega, the greatest warrior of Aliahan, fell in battle against Baramos the Archfiend. Now his child comes of age and must complete the quest to save the world.

== Getting Started ==

=== Aliahan ===

Home kingdom:
# Wake up on 16th birthday
# Meet the King
# Create party at Luisa's Place
# Receive initial gold and equipment

=== Party Creation ===

At Luisa's Place, create up to 3 companions:

{| class="wikitable"
! Recommended !! Role
|-
| Warrior || Tank/damage
|-
| Priest || Healing
|-
| Mage || Offense magic
|}

Alternative parties possible with other classes.

== Early Game ==

=== First Quests ===

{| class="wikitable"
! Task !! Location
|-
| Explore Aliahan region || Surrounding towns
|-
| Find Thief's Key || Tower of Najima
|-
| Defeat Kandar || Tower
|}

=== Aliahan Region Towns ===

* Reeve - North of castle
* Najimi Tower - Thief's Key location
* Cave nearby for grinding

=== Reaching the Sea ===

To leave Aliahan:
# Navigate the cave system
# Reach the port
# Board ship to other continents

== Mid Game ==

=== World Exploration ===

After leaving Aliahan, explore multiple continents:

{| class="wikitable"
! Region !! Notable Locations
|-
| Romaly || Castle and town
|-
| Kazave || Monster arena
|-
| Portoga || Ship acquisition
|-
| Baharata || Pepper quest
|-
| Dharma || Class change temple
|}

=== Ship Quest ===

{| class="wikitable"
! Step !! Action
|-
| 1 || Reach Portoga
|-
| 2 || Complete quest for king
|-
| 3 || Receive ship
|}

The ship opens up the entire world.

=== Dharma Temple ===

Class change location:
* Requires level 20+
* Resets level to 1
* Keeps learned spells
* Opens new spell learning

=== Collecting the Orbs ===

Six colored orbs are needed:

{| class="wikitable"
! Orb !! General Location
|-
| Red || Varies by version
|-
| Blue || Tower or dungeon
|-
| Green || Cave
|-
| Yellow || Side quest
|-
| Purple || Dungeon
|-
| Silver || Special location
|}

The orbs are used to revive Ramia, the sacred bird.

== The Quest for Baramos ==

=== Ramia ===

With all six orbs:
# Go to the Shrine
# Revive the bird Ramia
# Fly to Baramos's Castle

=== Baramos's Castle ===

The Archfiend's fortress:
* Located on unreachable landmass
* Requires Ramia to reach
* Multiple dungeon floors

=== Defeating Baramos ===

The Archfiend awaits:
* Powerful magic attacks
* High HP
* Bring plenty of healing

After defeating Baramos, return victorious... but the story isn't over.

== The Dark World ==

=== The Twist ===

After Baramos's defeat:
# Return to Aliahan
# Celebrate victory
# Zoma appears - the true enemy
# World pit opens
# Descend to Alefgard

=== Alefgard ===

A dark version of Dragon Warrior I's world:
* Tantegel Castle
* Rimuldar
* Hauksness
* All familiar locations

=== Equipment of Erdrick ===

Collect the legendary equipment:

{| class="wikitable"
! Item !! Location
|-
| Sword of Kings || Zoma's Castle
|-
| Erdrick's Armor || Cave/dungeon
|-
| Erdrick's Shield || Town/chest
|-
| Erdrick's Helmet || Zoma's Castle
|}

These become "Erdrick's Equipment" after your victory.

=== Sphere of Light ===

Required to harm Zoma:
* Removes Zoma's barrier
* Found in special location
* Must use in battle

== Final Battle ==

=== Zoma's Castle ===

The ultimate dungeon:
* Multiple floors
* Boss gauntlet (Baramos Bomus, etc.)
* Strongest enemies

=== Defeating Zoma ===

{| class="wikitable"
! Phase !! Strategy
|-
| With Barrier || Use Sphere of Light first
|-
| Normal || Full offense with buffs
|}

Zoma is the strongest enemy:
* Ice breath attacks
* Physical strikes
* Magic abilities

== Ending ==

After defeating Zoma:
# Peace restored to Alefgard
# Light returns
# Reveal: YOU are the original Erdrick
# The legend begins here
# Connects to Dragon Warrior I/II

== Bonus Content ==

=== Pachisi Track ===

Board game mini-game for prizes.

=== Monster Medals ===

Collectible system (some versions).

=== Bonus Dungeon ===

Post-game content in remakes.

== Tips ==

=== Grinding ===

* Metal Slimes for fast EXP
* Level 20 before class change
* Alefgard has strong enemies

=== Party Balance ===

* Hero + Sage + Warrior + Sage (recommended)
* Or Hero + Warrior + Priest + Mage
* Sages are most versatile

== Related Pages ==

* [[Dragon_Warrior_III:Characters|Characters]]
* [[Dragon_Warrior_III:Class_System|Class System]]
* [[Dragon_Warrior_III:Battle_System|Battle System]]
* [[Dragon_Warrior_III:Locations|Locations]]

[[Category:Dragon Warrior III]]
[[Category:Story Guide]]
