{{Back|Chrono Trigger}}

'''Secrets''' in Chrono Trigger include hidden items, optional content, and special features.

== Secret Characters ==

=== Magus ===
An optional party member who can be recruited late in the game.

'''How to Recruit:'''
* After the Ocean Palace events, face Magus at North Cape
* Choose to spare him instead of fighting
* He joins the party as a permanent member

'''Notes:'''
* Magus cannot use combination Techs with other characters
* His magic is Shadow-elemental
* Recruiting him means missing the battle rewards from fighting him

== Hidden Items ==

=== Rainbow Shell ===
A special item required for the best equipment.

'''Location:'''
* Found in the Giant's Claw in 600 AD
* Accessed after the Tyranno Lair events
* Required for Rainbow and Prism equipment

=== Sun Stone ===
Powers the ultimate weapon equipment.

'''Process:'''
# Obtain the Moon Stone from the Sun Palace in 2300 AD
# Place it in the Sun Keep in 65,000,000 BC
# Retrieve it in 2300 AD after charging through time
# Note: Must prevent theft in 1000 AD by checking on it

== Secret Locations ==

=== Ozzie's Fort ===
An optional dungeon with comedic boss fights.

'''Access:'''
* Available after Magus's Castle
* Located in 600 AD
* Features rematch battles with Ozzie, Flea, and Slash

=== Sunken Desert ===
Hidden dungeon accessible in 600 AD.

'''Requirements:'''
* Must have completed certain story events
* Contains the Retinite boss
* Rewards include Fiona's sidequest

== New Game Plus ==

After completing the game, New Game Plus offers:

'''Features:'''
* Keep all levels, equipment, and techs
* Access to additional ending variations
* Fight Lavos at different points for different endings

'''Multiple Endings:'''
There are 13+ different endings depending on when and how you defeat Lavos:
* "Beyond Time" - Standard ending
* "Reunion" - Special character ending
* "The Dream Project" - Developer room ending (defeat Lavos immediately in New Game+)
* And many more...

== Secret Techs ==

=== ??? (Confuse) ===
Lucca's hidden tech that causes random effects.

=== Frog Squash ===
Frog's tech that deals more damage at lower HP.

=== Dino Tail ===
Ayla's tech available only in New Game+ with high level.

== Rare Equipment ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
! Item !! How to Obtain !! Notes
|-
| Rainbow || Melchior crafts from Rainbow Shell || Crono's best sword
|-
| PrismDress || Melchior crafts from Rainbow Shell || Best female armor
|-
| Prism Helm || Melchior crafts from Rainbow Shell || Best helm
|-
| Moonbeam Armor || Trade at Prehistoric fair || Requires Dreamstone
|-
| Safe Helm || Geno Dome || Prevents status effects
|}

== Easter Eggs ==

=== Developer's Room ===
* Beat Lavos at the very beginning of New Game+
* Access a room where you can speak with the development team

=== Gonzales ===
* A friendly robot enemy in Lab 32
* Can be fought repeatedly for easy Tech Points

=== Nu Sprites ===
* Nu creatures appear throughout the game with hints and secrets
* One in the Hunting Range drops a powerful accessory

== Tips ==

'''Farming:'''
* Black Omen can be completed in each time period for triple rewards
* Geno Dome enemies drop good equipment
* Death Peak has respawning fights

'''Speed Running:'''
* Skip optional sidequests for faster completion
* The bucket in End of Time allows early Lavos access
* Certain glitches allow sequence breaks

[[Category:Chrono Trigger]]
[[Category:Secrets]]
