{{Back|Mappy-Land}}

'''Characters''' in Mappy-Land include the playable character and the antagonists.

== Playable Character ==

=== Mappy ===
Mappy is a police mouse who serves as the protagonist. He must collect items throughout various themed worlds to give presents to his girlfriend Mapico.

'''Abilities:'''
* Walk left and right
* Jump (short hop)
* Bounce on trampolines
* Collect items
* Kick soccer balls, baseballs, and rugby balls at enemies
* Ride rail cars in certain stages

== Antagonists ==

=== Meowkies (Mewkies) ===
The standard cat enemies that chase Mappy throughout the game. They appear in large numbers in most stages.

'''Behavior:'''
* Follow Mappy's general position
* Can climb ladders and ropes
* Stunned temporarily when hit with a thrown ball
* Cannot be permanently defeated

=== Nyamco (Goro) ===
The boss cat who leads the Meowkies. Nyamco is larger and more aggressive than regular Meowkies.

'''Behavior:'''
* Appears in later stages
* Moves more aggressively than Meowkies
* Worth more points when stunned
* Can appear multiple times in a stage

== NPCs ==

=== Mapico ===
Mappy's girlfriend who waits for him at the end of each world. She appears briefly in cutscenes between worlds.

=== Baby Mappies ===
Mappy's children who sometimes appear in bonus rounds or cutscenes.

== Character Statistics ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
! Character !! Role !! Points When Stunned
|-
| Mappy || Player || N/A
|-
| Meowky || Enemy || 200
|-
| Nyamco || Boss Enemy || 500
|}

== Trivia ==
* Mappy originally appeared in the 1983 arcade game "Mappy"
* The name "Mappy" comes from "mappo," Japanese slang for police
* Nyamco's name is a pun on Namco and "nyan" (Japanese cat sound)

[[Category:Mappy-Land]]
[[Category:Characters]]
