{{Back|Mappy-Land}}

'''Items''' in Mappy-Land include collectible objects, weapons, and bonus items.

== Collectible Items ==

Each world has specific items that must be collected to complete stages.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
! Item !! World !! Points
|-
| Cowboy Hat || Western Town || 100
|-
| Horseshoe || Western Town || 100
|-
| Fruit || Jungle || 100
|-
| Banana || Jungle || 100
|-
| Treasure Chest || Pirate Ship || 200
|-
| Anchor || Pirate Ship || 100
|-
| Pumpkin || Haunted House || 100
|-
| Candle || Haunted House || 100
|-
| Ticket || Train Station || 100
|-
| Clock || Train Station || 100
|-
| Balloon || Amusement Park || 100
|-
| Cotton Candy || Amusement Park || 100
|-
| Seashell || Tropical Island || 100
|-
| Starfish || Tropical Island || 100
|-
| Crown || Castle || 200
|-
| Gem || Castle || 200
|}

== Weapon Items ==

Mappy can pick up and throw balls to stun enemies.

=== Baseball ===
Found primarily in Western Town stages.
* Standard throwing arc
* Stuns one enemy on contact

=== Rugby Ball ===
Found primarily in Jungle stages.
* Bounces along the ground
* Can hit multiple enemies

=== Soccer Ball ===
Found primarily in Pirate Ship and other stages.
* Standard throwing arc
* Stuns one enemy on contact

== Power-Up Items ==

=== Trampoline ===
Not an item to collect, but essential for reaching high platforms.
* Fixed positions in stages
* Bounces Mappy higher with repeated jumps
* Maximum height after several bounces

=== Rail Car ===
Found in Train Station world.
* Mappy can ride along rails
* Provides safe travel over gaps
* Automatic movement

== Bonus Items ==

Special items that appear for limited times:

=== Bonus Fruit ===
* Appears randomly during stages
* Worth 500-1000 points
* Disappears quickly

=== Special Letters ===
* Spell "EXTRA" when collected
* Award an extra life when complete
* Appear in specific locations

== Gift Items ==

Items collected for Mapico at the end of each world:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
! World !! Gift !! Description
|-
| 1 || Engagement Ring || A diamond ring for Mapico
|-
| 2 || Necklace || A beautiful pearl necklace
|-
| 3 || Cheese || A large wheel of cheese
|-
| 4 || Toy Ball || A colorful toy ball
|-
| 5 || Wedding Dress || A white wedding gown
|-
| 6 || Doll || A cute doll toy
|-
| 7 || Perfume || A bottle of perfume
|-
| 8 || Treasure || A chest of treasures
|}

== Point Values ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
! Action !! Points
|-
| Collect regular item || 100
|-
| Collect treasure item || 200
|-
| Stun Meowky || 200
|-
| Stun Nyamco || 500
|-
| Bonus fruit || 500-1000
|-
| Stage clear bonus || Varies by time remaining
|}

[[Category:Mappy-Land]]
[[Category:Items]]
