{{Back|Mappy-Land}}

'''Worlds''' in Mappy-Land consist of themed areas, each containing multiple stages.

== World Overview ==

Mappy-Land features 8 unique themed worlds. Each world has 4 regular stages and specific items to collect for Mapico.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
! World !! Theme !! Stages !! Gift Item
|-
| 1 || Western Town || 4 || Engagement Ring
|-
| 2 || Jungle || 4 || Necklace
|-
| 3 || Pirate Ship || 4 || Cheese
|-
| 4 || Haunted House || 4 || Toy Ball
|-
| 5 || Train Station || 4 || Wedding Dress
|-
| 6 || Amusement Park || 4 || Doll
|-
| 7 || Tropical Island || 4 || Perfume
|-
| 8 || Castle || 4 || Treasure
|}

== World 1: Western Town ==
A Wild West themed world featuring wooden buildings, cacti, and saloon doors.

'''Features:'''
* Swinging saloon doors
* Trampolines on building roofs
* Cacti as obstacles
* Baseball items

== World 2: Jungle ==
A tropical jungle with trees, vines, and exotic scenery.

'''Features:'''
* Vine ropes to climb
* Tree platforms
* Rugby balls as weapons
* Dense vegetation

== World 3: Pirate Ship ==
Takes place aboard pirate vessels with nautical themes.

'''Features:'''
* Ship deck platforms
* Rope rigging to climb
* Cannon obstacles
* Soccer balls as weapons

== World 4: Haunted House ==
A spooky mansion filled with Halloween-themed elements.

'''Features:'''
* Multiple floors
* Ghostly decorations
* Trap doors
* Darker color palette

== World 5: Train Station ==
A railway-themed world with trains and station platforms.

'''Features:'''
* Rail cars to ride
* Platform levels
* Train tracks as obstacles
* Station architecture

== World 6: Amusement Park ==
A carnival setting with rides and attractions.

'''Features:'''
* Ferris wheel elements
* Roller coaster tracks
* Carnival decorations
* Balloon obstacles

== World 7: Tropical Island ==
A beach paradise with palm trees and ocean scenery.

'''Features:'''
* Palm tree platforms
* Beach umbrellas
* Sand and water elements
* Tropical setting

== World 8: Castle ==
The final world set in a medieval castle.

'''Features:'''
* Stone walls and towers
* Royal decorations
* Most difficult stage layouts
* Final challenge

== Stage Structure ==

Each stage within a world follows this pattern:
# Collect all required items (varies per stage)
# Avoid or stun Meowkies using available balls
# Reach the goal within the time limit
# Collect bonus items for extra points

== Tips ==
* Learn the item locations in each stage
* Use trampolines effectively to reach high platforms
* Stun enemies strategically rather than avoiding all of them
* Practice timing for trampoline jumps

[[Category:Mappy-Land]]
[[Category:Locations]]
