{{Back|Robotrek}}

= Story Guide =

'''Robotrek''' follows a young inventor who builds robots to save the world from the evil Hackers organization.

__TOC__

== Prologue ==

=== Rococo Village ===

The hero arrives in Rococo Village with his father, a famous inventor. The village is peaceful until the Hackers appear.

'''Key Events:'''
* Inherit father's lab
* Build first robot
* Meet village residents
* Hackers kidnap villagers

== Chapter 1: Rococo ===

=== Lab Setup ===

{| class="wikitable"
! Objective !! Reward
|-
| Explore father's lab || Access to R&D room
|-
| Build first robot || Robot #1
|-
| Test robot in battle || Combat tutorial
|}

=== First Hacker Encounter ===

{| class="wikitable"
! Boss !! Location !! Reward
|-
| Hacker Grunt || Village outskirts || Rococo safe
|-
| Boss Robot || Hackers' base || Story progression
|}

== Chapter 2: Quintenix ===

=== The Museum ===

Travel to Quintenix to investigate stolen artifacts.

'''Objectives:'''
* Enter Quintenix
* Investigate museum theft
* Track Hackers to cave
* Recover artifacts

{| class="wikitable"
! Location !! Events !! Boss
|-
| Quintenix Town || Meet curator || --
|-
| Museum || Discover theft || --
|-
| Cave || Fight Hackers || Cave Boss
|}

== Chapter 3: Forest ==

=== Ancient Forest ===

The Ancient Forest contains secrets from a lost civilization.

'''Key Items:'''
* Ancient documents
* Forest map
* Weather Machine part

{| class="wikitable"
! Area !! Enemies !! Treasure
|-
| Forest Entrance || Insects || Scrap 1
|-
| Deep Forest || Plant monsters || Bomb
|-
| Forest Shrine || Guardians || Ancient Scroll
|}

== Chapter 4: Volcano ==

=== Mount Magma ===

Hackers have established a base inside the volcano.

'''Objectives:'''
* Navigate lava areas
* Disable Hacker machinery
* Fight fire enemies
* Defeat volcano boss

{| class="wikitable"
! Zone !! Hazards !! Notes
|-
| Base || None || Safe zone
|-
| Lower caves || Heat damage || Need Cooling Pack
|-
| Lava tunnels || Lava pits || Timed sections
|-
| Core || Boss arena || Final area
|}

== Chapter 5: Choco ==

=== Choco Island ===

A peaceful island with hidden Hacker activity.

'''Features:'''
* Beach resort area
* Underground facility
* Submarine base

{| class="wikitable"
! Location !! Key Items !! Events
|-
| Beach || Sunglasses || Meet ally
|-
| Resort || Key Card || Discover secret
|-
| Underwater || Submarine || Access new area
|}

== Chapter 6: Kirara ==

=== Kirara Village ===

A village with unique customs and problems.

'''Objectives:'''
* Help villagers
* Solve mystery
* Find village treasure
* Defeat local boss

== Chapter 7: Tower ==

=== Hacker Tower ===

Main Hacker headquarters.

'''Structure:'''
* Floor 1-5: Grunt areas
* Floor 6-10: Lieutenant areas
* Floor 11-15: Elite areas
* Top floor: Commander

{| class="wikitable"
! Floor !! Boss !! Reward
|-
| 5 || Sub-boss 1 || Elevator Key
|-
| 10 || Sub-boss 2 || Access Card
|-
| 15 || Sub-boss 3 || Final Key
|-
| Top || Commander || Story completion
|}

== Chapter 8: Space ==

=== Space Station ===

The Hackers have a base in orbit.

'''Requirements:'''
* Complete Tower
* Build space-worthy robot
* Gather launch components

{| class="wikitable"
! Section !! Hazards !! Enemies
|-
| Launch Bay || None || Robots
|-
| Corridor || Vacuum areas || Space Hackers
|-
| Core || Zero gravity || Elite Guards
|-
| Command || Boss arena || Final Boss
|}

== Final Chapter ==

=== Confrontation ===

Face the true mastermind behind the Hackers.

'''Final Sequence:'''
1. Reach command center
2. Defeat elite guards
3. Fight penultimate boss
4. True final boss appears
5. Ending sequence

== Side Quests ==

=== Invention Contests ===

{| class="wikitable"
! Contest !! Location !! Reward
|-
| Rococo Contest || Town hall || 500G, Recipe
|-
| Regional || Quintenix || 1000G, Parts
|-
| National || Capital || 5000G, Secret Recipe
|}

=== Robot Customization ===

{| class="wikitable"
! Quest !! Requirement !! Reward
|-
| Speed Run || Beat boss in 2 min || Speed Part
|-
| Collection || Find all scraps || Super Bomb
|-
| No Damage || Beat area without damage || Defense Part
|}

== Boss List ==

{| class="wikitable sortable"
! Boss !! Chapter !! HP !! Weakness
|-
| Cave Guardian || 2 || 500 || Fire
|-
| Forest Spirit || 3 || 800 || Ice
|-
| Volcano Lord || 4 || 1200 || Water
|-
| Sea Monster || 5 || 1500 || Thunder
|-
| Tower Commander || 7 || 2000 || None
|-
| Space Tyrant || 8 || 3000 || Solar
|-
| Final Boss || 8 || 5000 || Varies
|}

== Story Branches ==

Some choices affect the story:

{| class="wikitable"
! Choice !! Option A !! Option B
|-
| Help villager || Reward item || Miss item, harder boss
|-
| Robot design || Combat focus || Support focus
|-
| Final choice || Good ending || Alt ending
|}

== Key Characters ==

{| class="wikitable"
! Character !! Role !! Notes
|-
| Hero || Protagonist || Inventor, silent protagonist
|-
| Father || Mentor || Famous inventor, kidnapped
|-
| Nagisa || Ally || Helps in various chapters
|-
| Hacker Boss || Antagonist || True villain revealed late
|-
| Dr. Einst || NPC || Provides upgrades
|}

== Tips ==

* Always upgrade robots between chapters
* Save scrap for important recipes
* Talk to all NPCs for hints
* Revisit areas after events
* Build multiple robot types

== Related Pages ==

* [[Robotrek:Inventions|Inventions]]
* [[Robotrek:Recipes|Recipes]]
* [[Robotrek:Enemies|Enemies]]
* [[Robotrek:Maps|Maps]]

[[Category:Robotrek]]
[[Category:Walkthrough]]
[[Category:Story]]
