{{Back|Kirby's Adventure}}
__TOC__

= Worlds =

This page documents all worlds and levels in Kirby's Adventure for the NES.

== World Overview ==

Kirby's Adventure features 7 main worlds plus the final area:

{| class="wikitable"
! # !! World !! Theme !! Levels !! Boss
|-
| 1 || Vegetable Valley || Grassland/Forest || 4 || Whispy Woods
|-
| 2 || Ice Cream Island || Beach/Ocean || 5 || Paint Roller
|-
| 3 || Butter Building || Tower/Sky || 5 || Mr. Shine & Mr. Bright
|-
| 4 || Grape Garden || Clouds/Sky Temple || 6 || Kracko
|-
| 5 || Yogurt Yard || Underground/Cave || 6 || Heavy Mole
|-
| 6 || Orange Ocean || Ocean/Ship || 6 || Meta Knight
|-
| 7 || Rainbow Resort || Ice/Rainbow || 6 || King Dedede
|-
| 8 || The Fountain of Dreams || Final || 1 || Nightmare
|}

== World 1: Vegetable Valley ==

A lush green world perfect for beginners.

=== Stages ===

{| class="wikitable"
! Stage !! Switches !! Abilities Available !! Notes
|-
| 1-1 || 1 || Beam, Fire || Tutorial level
|-
| 1-2 || 1 || Beam, Cutter, Stone || First vertical section
|-
| 1-3 || 2 || Fire, Sword, Hi-Jump || Water sections
|-
| 1-4 || 2 || Cutter, Fire, Hammer || Mini-boss: Poppy Bros. Sr.
|}

=== Boss: Whispy Woods ===

A giant apple tree:
* Blows air puffs
* Drops apples (inhale and spit back)
* Cannot move
* 20 HP

=== Museum Abilities ===

* Beam
* Cutter
* Fire

== World 2: Ice Cream Island ==

Tropical island with underwater sections.

=== Stages ===

{| class="wikitable"
! Stage !! Switches !! Abilities Available !! Notes
|-
| 2-1 || 1 || Parasol, Freeze || Beach stage
|-
| 2-2 || 2 || Backdrop, Needle || First underwater section
|-
| 2-3 || 2 || Ball, Stone || Cave and water
|-
| 2-4 || 1 || Spark, Wheel || Vertical climb
|-
| 2-5 || 2 || Ice, Fire || Mini-boss: Mr. Frosty
|}

=== Boss: Paint Roller ===

An artist on roller skates:
* Paints enemies that come to life
* Fast movement
* 15 HP

=== Museum Abilities ===

* Freeze
* Spark
* Stone

== World 3: Butter Building ==

A tall tower reaching into the clouds.

=== Stages ===

{| class="wikitable"
! Stage !! Switches !! Abilities Available !! Notes
|-
| 3-1 || 2 || Sword, Hi-Jump || Tower exterior
|-
| 3-2 || 1 || Beam, Laser, Parasol || Dark rooms
|-
| 3-3 || 2 || Cutter, Stone || Vertical ascent
|-
| 3-4 || 2 || Fire, Freeze, Sword || Mini-boss: Meta Knight (first)
|-
| 3-5 || 1 || Hi-Jump, Laser || Tower top
|}

=== Boss: Mr. Shine & Mr. Bright ===

The sun and moon work together:
* One attacks from above, one on ground
* They switch positions
* Must defeat both (20 HP each)

=== Museum Abilities ===

* Hi-Jump
* Laser
* Sword

== World 4: Grape Garden ==

A sky kingdom among the clouds.

=== Stages ===

{| class="wikitable"
! Stage !! Switches !! Abilities Available !! Notes
|-
| 4-1 || 1 || Tornado, UFO || Cloud platforms
|-
| 4-2 || 2 || Ball, Wheel || Racing section
|-
| 4-3 || 2 || Fire, Spark || Temple interior
|-
| 4-4 || 1 || Beam, Stone || Mini-boss: Bonkers
|-
| 4-5 || 2 || Tornado, Hi-Jump || Vertical climb
|-
| 4-6 || 2 || Light, Laser || Dark rooms
|}

=== Mini-Boss: Kracko Jr. ===

Appears before the boss:
* Cloud with one eye
* Spawns enemies
* Easier than full Kracko

=== Boss: Kracko ===

A thundercloud boss:
* Lightning attacks
* Spawns Waddle Doos
* Fast movement
* 20 HP

=== Museum Abilities ===

* Tornado
* UFO
* Wheel

== World 5: Yogurt Yard ==

Underground caves and mountain areas.

=== Stages ===

{| class="wikitable"
! Stage !! Switches !! Abilities Available !! Notes
|-
| 5-1 || 2 || Hammer, Needle || Mountain exterior
|-
| 5-2 || 1 || Fire, Stone || Cave exploration
|-
| 5-3 || 2 || Ball, Fireball || Lava areas
|-
| 5-4 || 2 || Cutter, Backdrop || Mini-boss: Bugzzy
|-
| 5-5 || 1 || Needle, Stone || Crystal caves
|-
| 5-6 || 2 || Hammer, Spark || Deep underground
|}

=== Boss: Heavy Mole ===

A giant mole machine:
* Digs through terrain
* Drops missiles with Ball/Hammer abilities
* Chase level format
* 25 HP

=== Museum Abilities ===

* Ball
* Hammer
* Needle

== World 6: Orange Ocean ==

Ocean voyage on a pirate ship.

=== Stages ===

{| class="wikitable"
! Stage !! Switches !! Abilities Available !! Notes
|-
| 6-1 || 2 || Parasol, Throw || Beach and ocean
|-
| 6-2 || 1 || Wheel, Fireball || Ship deck
|-
| 6-3 || 2 || Beam, Freeze || Underwater maze
|-
| 6-4 || 2 || Sword, Backdrop || Mini-boss: Rolling Turtle
|-
| 6-5 || 1 || Fire, Spark || Ship interior
|-
| 6-6 || 2 || Throw, Cutter || Final ship battle
|}

=== Boss: Meta Knight ===

The masked swordsman:
* Gives you a sword at battle start
* Fast sword combos
* 30 HP
* Optional to use sword

=== Museum Abilities ===

* Fireball
* Parasol
* Throw

== World 7: Rainbow Resort ==

Icy wonderland leading to the final battle.

=== Stages ===

{| class="wikitable"
! Stage !! Switches !! Abilities Available !! Notes
|-
| 7-1 || 2 || Freeze, Ice || Snow area
|-
| 7-2 || 1 || Mike, Sleep || Music-themed
|-
| 7-3 || 2 || All abilities || Ability gauntlet
|-
| 7-4 || 2 || Stone, Hi-Jump || Ice caverns
|-
| 7-5 || 1 || Beam, Tornado || Mini-boss rush
|-
| 7-6 || 2 || Sword, Fire || Final regular stage
|}

=== Boss: King Dedede ===

The penguin king:
* Hammer attacks
* Belly flop
* Can inhale Kirby
* 40 HP

=== Museum ===

All abilities available in Rainbow Resort museum.

== World 8: The Fountain of Dreams ==

The final confrontation with Nightmare.

=== Final Boss: Nightmare ===

'''Phase 1: Power Orb'''
* Must use Star Rod
* Fires star projectiles
* 30 HP

'''Phase 2: Wizard Form'''
* Giant caped wizard
* Multiple attack patterns
* Star Rod is only weapon
* 50 HP

== Collectibles ==

=== Switches ===

Each level contains Big Switches that unlock:
* Extra areas
* Museum access
* Bonus games

Total switches in game: ~36

=== 1-Ups ===

Extra lives found in:
* Hidden rooms
* Above clouds
* Underwater secrets
* Behind breakable walls

== Hub World Features ==

Each hub world contains:

{| class="wikitable"
! Feature !! Description
|-
| Museum || Free abilities to copy
|-
| Arena || Fight mini-bosses for abilities
|-
| Crane Game || Win extra lives and items
|-
| Quick Draw || Timing minigame
|-
| Egg Catcher || Catch eggs from Dedede
|}

[[Category:Kirby's Adventure]]
[[Category:Worlds]]
[[Category:NES Games]]
