{{Back|Final_Fantasy_Mystic_Quest}}

= Story Guide =

'''Final Fantasy Mystic Quest''' is a streamlined RPG following Benjamin's quest to restore the Crystals.

__TOC__

== Premise ==

The Focus Tower connects four regions, each with a Crystal that has been stolen by a Vile Evil (boss). Benjamin, a young adventurer, must recover the Crystals and defeat the Dark King.

== Prologue ==

=== Hill of Destiny ===

* Benjamin's village destroyed
* Old man appears (later revealed as the Dark King)
* Given quest to restore the Crystals
* Initial equipment received

== Level Forest ==

=== First Quest ===

* Meet Kaeli
* She joins as first companion
* Clear Level Forest
* Kaeli poisoned by Minotaur
* Need Elixir to cure her

=== Foresta Region ===

{| class="wikitable"
! Location !! Purpose
|-
| Foresta || Town, cure Kaeli later
|-
| Level Forest || First dungeon
|-
| Sand Temple || Elixir quest
|}

=== Boss: Minotaur ===

First boss battle. Introduces the multi-phase boss design.

=== After Foresta ===

* Kaeli cured (later)
* Continue to Focus Tower
* Open path to next region

== Aquaria Region ==

=== Frozen Town ===

* Aquaria is frozen
* Meet Phoebe (archer companion)
* Need to restore warmth

=== Key Dungeons ===

{| class="wikitable"
! Dungeon !! Purpose
|-
| Wintry Cave || Access to temple
|-
| Ice Pyramid || Boss dungeon
|}

=== Boss: Ice Golem ===

Restoring the Water Crystal unfreezes Aquaria.

=== Liberation ===

* Town thaws
* New equipment available
* Progress to next region

== Fireburg Region ==

=== Volcanic Area ===

* Meet Reuben
* His father trapped in Mine
* Fire-themed region

=== Key Dungeons ===

{| class="wikitable"
! Dungeon !! Purpose
|-
| Mine || Rescue Spencer (Reuben's father)
|-
| Volcano || Fire Crystal dungeon
|-
| Lava Dome || Boss area
|}

=== Boss: Dualhead Hydra ===

Recover the Fire Crystal.

=== Aftermath ===

* Spencer rescued
* Reuben joins permanently for a time
* Progress to final region

== Windia Region ==

=== Sky Region ===

* Meet Kaeli again (fully recovered)
* She rejoins as companion
* Wind-themed area

=== Key Dungeons ===

{| class="wikitable"
! Dungeon !! Purpose
|-
| Mount Gale || Access dungeon
|-
| Pazuzu's Tower || Main dungeon
|-
| Ship || Special dungeon
|}

=== Boss: Pazuzu ===

Four-floor tower with Pazuzu waiting at top. Recover the Wind Crystal.

== Focus Tower ==

=== Final Area ===

With all four Crystals:
* Return to Focus Tower
* Climb to the top
* Face the Dark King

=== Boss Rush ===

Face previous bosses or new challenges on the way up.

=== Final Boss: Dark King ===

{| class="wikitable"
! Phase !! Form
|-
| 1 || Human form (Old Man revealed)
|-
| 2 || Spider form
|-
| 3 || True form
|}

== Endings ==

After defeating the Dark King:
* World restored
* Companions return to their homes
* Benjamin's quest complete
* Credits roll

== Companion System ==

Only one companion at a time:

{| class="wikitable"
! Companion !! Region !! Specialty
|-
| Kaeli || Foresta/Windia || Axe user, healing
|-
| Phoebe || Aquaria || Archer, magic
|-
| Reuben || Fireburg || Fighter, morning star
|-
| Tristam || Various || Ninja, treasure hunter
|}

=== Tristam ===

Special companion who appears at various points:
* Not tied to one region
* Helps in specific dungeons
* Treasure hunting focus

== Key Items ==

{| class="wikitable"
! Item !! Purpose
|-
| Sword || Various upgrades
|-
| Axe || Tree cutting, combat
|-
| Bombs || Wall destruction
|-
| Claws || Wall climbing
|-
| Exit || Escape dungeons
|-
| Crystals || Story progression (4 total)
|}

== Spell Progression ==

Magic unlocks as you progress:

{| class="wikitable"
! Spell Type !! Region Available
|-
| Cure || Start
|-
| White/Black basics || Early
|-
| Stronger spells || Mid-game
|-
| Wizard spells || Late-game
|}

== Tips ==

=== Combat ===

* Exploit elemental weaknesses
* Use correct weapon for enemy
* Check battlefields for grinding

=== Exploration ===

* Use tools on everything
* Bomb suspicious walls
* Claw climb surfaces

=== Companions ===

* They're AI-controlled
* Can't control their actions
* They're temporary (except for final)

== Related Pages ==

* [[Final_Fantasy_Mystic_Quest:Battle_System|Battle System]]
* [[Final_Fantasy_Mystic_Quest:Characters|Characters]]
* [[Final_Fantasy_Mystic_Quest:Weapons|Weapons]]
* [[Final_Fantasy_Mystic_Quest:Magic|Magic]]

[[Category:Final Fantasy Mystic Quest]]
[[Category:Story Guide]]
