{{Back|Final Fantasy IV}}

'''Secrets''' in Final Fantasy IV include hidden items, rare encounters, and optional content.

== Hidden Items ==

=== Adamant Armor ===
The best armor in the game, hidden in a complex sidequest.

'''How to Obtain:'''
# Obtain the Pink Tail from Princess Flan in the Lunar Subterrane
# Trade the Pink Tail to the Tail Collector in Adamant Isle Grotto
# Receive the Adamant Armor

'''Notes:'''
* Pink Tail drop rate is extremely rare (1/64)
* Princess Flans appear in specific rooms only
* Adamant Armor provides the highest defense

=== Excalibur ===
Cecil's second-best sword, found in a hidden passage.

'''Location:'''
* Sealed Cave, in a hidden passage
* Requires searching specific walls

=== Masamune ===
An early powerful weapon for Palom (temporarily).

'''Location:'''
* Found in the Antlion's Den
* In a hidden passage near the Ant Lion boss room

== Rare Enemies ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
! Enemy !! Location !! Drop
|-
| Princess Flan || Lunar Subterrane B5 || Pink Tail
|-
| Red Dragon || Lunar Subterrane || Dragoon equipment
|-
| Blue Dragon || Lunar Subterrane || Blue Dragon drops
|-
| White Dragon || Lunar Subterrane || White Dragon drops
|}

== Secret Passages ==

=== Damcyan Castle ===
* Hidden passage behind the throne
* Contains valuable early-game treasures

=== Baron Castle ===
* Secret passage in the east tower
* Accessible after certain story events

=== Tower of Babil ===
* Multiple hidden rooms with rare equipment
* Search walls near dead ends

== Developer's Room ==

A hidden room accessible with a special trick.

'''Access Method:'''
* In some versions, accessible via glitches or codes
* Contains developer message NPCs
* Varies by version (SNES, GBA, PSP, etc.)

== Duplicating Items ==

In the original SNES version, an item duplication glitch exists:

'''Method (SNES only):'''
* Involves specific menu manipulation
* Patched in later versions
* Use at your own risk

== Rare Summons ==

=== Goblin ===
* Rare summon obtained from Goblin enemies
* Low drop rate

=== Cockatrice ===
* Dropped by Cockatrice enemies in certain areas

=== Bomb ===
* Obtained from Mom Bomb or Bomb enemies

=== Mindflayer ===
* Rare drop from Mindflayer enemies

== Secret Spells ==

=== Meteo ===
Fusoya joins with this powerful spell.

=== Warp ===
Allows instant dungeon escape, learned by Rydia.

=== Sight ===
Reveals the world map, useful for exploration.

== Optional Content ==

=== Land of Summons ===
While required for story, contains optional treasures:
* Hidden paths with rare items
* Challenging enemy encounters
* Asura and Leviatan as optional summons

=== Sylph Cave ===
Optional dungeon with helpful summon:
* Retrieve Yang's frying pan from his wife
* Use it to wake Yang
* Obtain Sylph summon

== Tips ==

'''Grinding Spots:'''
* Lunar Subterrane has the best experience
* Giant of Babil 11F has good early endgame experience
* Land of Summons for summon ability grinding

'''Rare Item Farming:'''
* Use Alert to increase encounter rate
* Save before farming Pink Tails
* Multiple hours may be required for rarest items

[[Category:Final Fantasy IV]]
[[Category:Secrets]]
